[rock music]
♪ ♪
[woman singing in Japanese]
>> narrator: THIS IS THE TALE
OF A MAN WHO PIERCES THE FATE OF
A UNIVERSE RULED BY THE ENDLESS
CYCLE OF VIOLENCE.
THE SUPER GALAXY DAI‐GURREN HAD
BEEN SWALLOWED BY A DARK SEA.
WHAT SAVED THEM FROM BEING
CRUSHED IN THIS GRAVEYARD OF
SPIRAL WARRIORS WAS A FLASH
OF LIGHT GIVEN OFF BY THE END
OF KITTAN’S LIFE.
>> Simon: KITTAN, I HEREBY
ACCEPT YOUR LAST WISH!
OUR FRIEND’S HOPES AND DREAMS
ARE ETCHED INTO ITS BODY...
TRANSFORMING THE INFINITE
DARKNESS INTO LIGHT!
UNMATCHED IN HEAVEN AND EARTH,
ONE MACHINE, EQUAL TO THE GODS!
SUPER GALAXY GURREN LAGANN!
NOW WE’RE GONNA SHOW YOU
THE POWER...
OF HUMANS!
>> Dayakka: WHAT’S HAPPENING?
>> Cybela: A POWERFUL SPIRAL
ENERGY FIELD IS COMPLETELY
NEUTRALIZING THE ENEMY ATTACKS!
>> Simon: OF COURSE!
LIKE THOSE PEBBLES WOULD WORK
ON US!
GURREN BOOMERANG!
SUPER GALAXY MEGA CUTTER!
>> Darry: AMAZING!
THAT’S SIMON’S POWER?
>> Gimmy: IT’S INCREDIBLE.
>> Simon: WEREN’T YOU LISTENING?
THOSE LITTLE THINGS WON’T WORK.
[Simon grunts]
>> Dayakka: WHAT WAS THAT?
>> Cybela: UNKNOWN!
SPIRAL FIELD IS HOLDING STEADY!
ACCORDING TO MY MONITOR,
THE ATTACK IS BEING
BLOCKED COMPLETELY!
>> Gimmy: THEN EXPLAIN TO ME
HOW THEY’RE HITTING US!
>> Lordgenome: PROBABILITY
ALTERING MISSILES.
THEY ARE NEGATING THE
PROBABILITY OF US SUCCESSFULLY
BLOCKING THEIR ATTACK.
>> Darry: THEY CAN MANIPULATE
PROBABILITY?
BUT I THOUGHT THAT
WAS GOD’S DOMAIN.
>> Yoko: WHAT IS IT?
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU WOULD
SACRIFICE ONE OF YOUR OWN IN
ORDER TO GO FORWARD?
SUCH IS THE KARMA OF THE PEOPLE
OF THE SPIRAL.
AND IT IS PRECISELY BECAUSE OF
THAT KARMA THAT YOU MUST BE
DESTROYED.
>> Simon: GET REAL!
AS IF WE’D ACCEPT EXTINCTION
OVER A BUNCH OF CRAP LIKE THAT!
>> Anti‐Spiral: THEN BEHOLD!
WATCH WHERE THIS UNIVERSE
IS HEADED.
SEE THE UNIVERSE DESTROYED BY
THE POWER OF THE SPIRAL,
WHICH THINKS ONLY OF EVOLVING.
SPIRAL POWER IS WHAT BINDS
TOGETHER LIFE FORMS AND
THE UNIVERSE.
THE GROWTH OF GALAXIES IS
PROPORTIONAL TO THE GROWTH OF
LIFE, LIFE DEVELOPED IN SEARCH
OF FORMS THAT WOULD HELP IT
ACQUIRE EVEN MORE SPIRAL POWER.
THIS IS EVOLUTION.
BUT THE RESULT WOULD BE A LOSS
OF CONTROL OVER SPIRAL POWER
AND ALL LIFE BECOMING
ITS OWN GALAXY.
THESE MEGA GALAXIES WOULD DEVOUR
EACH OTHER, FORMING A GIANT
BLACK HOLE, RETURNING THE
UNIVERSE TO NOTHINGNESS.
THIS IS THE SPIRAL NEMESIS.
>> Simon: I DON’T BELIEVE IT.
>> Viral: WHAT’S WRONG WITH YOU?
SIMON, HE’S BLUFFING!
DON’T SWALLOW THAT CRAP!
>> Lordgenome: UNFORTUNATELY,
WHAT HE SAYS IS THE TRUTH,
VIRAL.
THIS FACT IS KNOWN TO THOSE WHO
ARE USERS OF THE SPIRAL POWER.
SIMON HAS REALIZED
THIS INTUITIVELY.
HE KNOWS THAT THE ANTI‐SPIRAL
SPEAK THE TRUTH.
HOWEVER, THERE IS ONE OTHER
TRUTH, AND THAT IS THAT NIA
IS OUT THERE WAITING FOR YOU.
SHE IS HANGING ON SO THAT THE
SPIRAL RACES AND THE EARTH WON’T
BE ANNIHILATED.
>> Simon: YEAH. THAT’S RIGHT.
YOU’RE EXACTLY RIGHT!
>> Anti‐Spiral: WHAT
FOOLISHNESS.
YOU WOULD RISK THE UNIVERSE FOR
THE SAKE OF A FLEETING EMOTION?
>> Simon: YOU’RE WRONG,
DUMB‐ASS!
I’LL PROTECT ’EM, THE GIRL,
THE UNIVERSE, BOTH OF THEM!
I DON’T WANNA REGRET DOING
NOTHING ’CAUSE OF A TOMORROW
THAT MIGHT NEVER COME.
THAT’S THE WAY TEAM
DAI‐GURREN ROLLS!
>> Cybela: THE ENEMY’S
DISAPPEARED!
>> Lordgenome: BE CAREFUL.
THEY WILL LIKELY USE A RANDOM
SCHRODINGER WARP TO SNEAK UP
ON US.
>> Dayakka: WOULD YOU PLEASE USE
WORDS WE CAN UNDERSTAND?!
>> Lordgenome: THEY ARE
MANIPULATING MULTIDIMENSIONAL
PROBABILITY, ATTACKING AS THEY
SHIFT ALONG THE TIME AXIS.
>> Dayakka: THAT’S SUPPOSED TO
MAKE THINGS CLEARER?!
>> Artenborough: WHO CARES?!
LET’S JUST CUT LOOSE!
>> Lordgenome: UNDERSTOOD.
PREPARING FULL BARRAGE ALONG
THE TIME‐SPACE AXIS!
I AM TRACKING THE ENEMY.
>> Ron: YOU MEAN THE TIME RANGE
CAN ALSO BE BROADENED?
>> Lordgenome: ENEMY UNITS ARE
IN PROBABILITY SPACE.
NEAR PAST, MINUS‐10.
NEAR FUTURE, PLUS‐8.
>> Viral: ENEMY UNITS DETECTED!
THE COUNT IS OFF THE CHARTS!
>> Simon: THE CANNONS,
WILL THEY WORK?
>> Yoko: LEAVE IT TO US!
I COULD CARE LESS
ABOUT PROBABILITY.
WE’LL TEACH THIS GUY A LESSON!
THAT’S HOW TEAM DAI‐GURREN
ROLLS!
>> Gimmy: SHE’S DAMN RIGHT!
MAELSTROM CANNON ARMED!
READY TO FIRE!
>> Darry: MEGA VORTEX CANNON
STANDING BY!
>> Tetsukan: THE GAUGE IS
SAYING SOMETHING ABOUT
A "PLANCK TIME COEFFICIENT."
>> Ron: IGNORE IT!
JUST LOCK ON TO THE TARGETS!
IT FOUND THE PROBABILITY
CHANGE!
IT’S A SURE HIT!
>> Simon: ALL RIGHT!
LET’S PUNCH HOLES IN THE PAST
AND FUTURE ALL AT ONCE!
>> Ron: HOW ’BOUT THAT?
THERE’S SO MUCH POWER IN OUR
ENGINE, IT’S LIKE A GALAXY’S
BEING BORN!
>> Simon: YOU CAN’T RUN OR HIDE
FROM US ANYMORE.
>> Leyte: SIMON, YOU’VE BEEN
HANGING IN THERE FOR
A LONG TIME.
SO DON’T WORRY, YOU CAN CUT US
LOOSE IF YOU WANT.
>> Simon: I’LL TAKE YOU UP
ON THAT!
>> Simon: SUPER GALAXY
GIGA DRILL BREAK!
[Nia chuckles]
>> Simon: NIA!
>> Lordgenome: THE INTERFERENCE
FROM THE FAKE IS GONE.
WE CAN NOW JUMP STRAIGHT TO
WHERE THE REAL NIA IS.
>> Simon: LET’S GO!
I SEE HER!
>> Nia: SIMON.
>> Simon: WHAT THE‐‐
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU SEE BEAUTY
IN STRUGGLING TO THE BITTER END,
A TRAIT INSTINCTIVE TO THOSE
BEWITCHED BY THE POWER
OF THE SPIRAL.
NEVERTHELESS, THAT IS AN ACT
WHICH HAS BEEN REPEATED TIME
AND TIME AGAIN.
NOW FOLLOW THE SAME FATE AS
THOSE SPIRAL WARRIORS
WHO CAME BEFORE YOU!
>> Simon: WHAT’S GOING ON?
[groans]
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER ♪ ♪
>> Simon: DIGGING TUNNELS
DAY AFTER DAY, THAT’S MY JOB.
WHEN YESTERDAY WAS OR WHERE
TOMORROW IS HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH ME.
>> Kamina: HOW’S IT COMING,
SIMON?
>> Simon: JUST A LITTLE
FURTHER, BRO.
>> Kamina: I’M COUNTING ON YOU,
SIMON.
YOUR DRILL’S THE ONLY THING I
CAN COUNT ON.
[laughing] THIS IS AWESOME!
[sirens blaring]
THAT WENT OFF WITHOUT A HITCH,
SIMON!
[chortling]
CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS?
WITH THIS MUCH LOOT, WE’LL BE
LIVING THE HIGH LIFE
FOR A WHILE!
HERE YOU GO!
COME ON, MAN.
GRAB IT UP!
THIS IS YOUR CUT, BLOOD BROTHER!
>> Simon: SURE.
[crowd chatter, laughter]
>> Kamina: WELL?
WASN’T IT A GOOD IDEA TO GET
OUT OF GIHA VILLAGE?
WE’RE STILL UNDERGROUND, BUT WE
CAN LIVE LIKE KINGS HERE UNDER
THE CAPITAL!
[Simon grunts]
WE’LL NEVER HAVE IT AS GOOD
AS THE BEASTMEN.
BUT DIGGING UP UNDER ’EM AND
STEALING THEIR VALUABLES IN
SECRET SURE KEEPS US
PRETTY COMFY.
YOU DIG FOR IT, AND THEN
I STEAL IT.
HERE’S TO A LONG PARTNERSHIP!
[swallows]
>> Simon: RIGHT, BRO!
>> I WILL GO DOWN WITH
THE SHIP.
>> CAPTAIN!
>> YOU’RE WORTH FAR MORE THAN
JEWELS TO ME‐‐
>> GET DISHES CLEANER‐‐
>> HAVE A TASTE OF OUR RAY GUNS!
>> Cybela: WE INTERRUPT OUR
REGULAR PROGRAMMING TO BRING YOU
NEWS OF A CRIME IN PROGRESS.
A BANK ROBBER IS ON THE RUN IN
THE SITON REGION, FIRING WILDLY
AS HE GOES.
[screaming]
>> ALL RIGHT!
I WANT MONEY AND SOME FOOD TOO!
HURRY UP, WILL YOU?!
[gunshot]
>> Cybela: WE NOW HAVE
FOOTAGE FROM THE SCENE!
WHY, THAT’S‐‐IT’S THAT
MYSTERIOUS, ELUSIVE
BOUNTY HUNTER!
SHE CALLS HERSELF YOKO LITTNER!
[giggles]
>> COME ON.
ON YOUR FEET!
>> Yoko: EVERYTHING’S OKAY NOW.
>> Naakim: THANKS FOR SAVING US!
>> Maosha: YEAH, THANKS A LOT,
LADY!
[giggles]
>> Yoko: I’M JUST GLAD I COULD
HELP.
>> Lordgenome: WHAT’S THIS?
WHAT IN THE WORLD IS HAPPENING?
IT CAN’T BE!
>> Anti‐Spiral: OH, BUT IT IS.
IT IS EXACTLY AS YOU SUSPECT,
LORDGENOME.
THEY ARE BEING HELD PRISONER IN
EXTRADIMENSIONAL SPACE...
TRAPPED IN A SERIES OF
UNIVERSES THAT ARE CREATED
INSTANT TO INSTANT AS THEY
ARE PERCEIVED.
SO LONG AS THEY HAVE
INTELLIGENCE, THEY WILL NEVER
BREAK FREE.
>> Lordgenome: SO YOU ARE
THE ANTI‐SPIRAL?
>> Anti‐Spiral: YES, I AM.
SO A MAN ONCE RENOWNED
THROUGHOUT THE GALAXY
AS A SPIRAL WARRIOR IS REDUCED
TO A BIOCOMPUTER?
I SEE YOUR COMPANIONS WILL TAKE
ANY ACTION THEY DEEM NECESSARY
TO ACHIEVE THEIR AIMS.
>> Lordgenome: EVEN SO,
I WAS DEFEATED BY YOU.
I FAILED TO PROTECT THE GALAXY.
IF IT WEREN’T FOR THEM, I
WOULDN’T HAVE BEEN ABLE TO FACE
YOU DIRECTLY IN BATTLE.
>> Anti‐Spiral: HMPH!
ARE YOU SAYING THAT YOU CAME
ALL THE WAY HERE TO THE SPACE
BETWEEN THE 10th AND 11th
DIMENSIONS SO THAT I COULD
FINISH YOU?
SO THAT’S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
>> Lordgenome: I MUST SAY,
YOU ARE BEING ODDLY CONSIDERATE.
PERHAPS EVEN A BIT TOO
CONSIDERATE, ONE MIGHT SAY.
WHY WOULD YOU EMPLOY SUCH
ELABORATE, INDIRECT METHODS?
WITH ALL THE POWERS IN YOUR
POSSESSION, EXTERMINATING
THE SPIRAL RACES WOULD BE
A TRIVIAL MATTER.
>> Anti‐Spiral: WE DETECTED AN
UNKNOWN SOURCE OF SPIRAL POWER.
GAPS IN OUR DATA COULD
POTENTIALLY RUIN EVERYTHING.
[Boota grunts]
WHAT?
THE UNUSUAL SPIRAL POWER
WE DETECTED WAS YOU?
[Boota groaning]
A HUMANOID FORM?
>> Lordgenome: AH, I SEE.
YOU CHANGED INDIVIDUAL GROWTH
ENERGY TO SPECIES
EVOLUTION ENERGY.
HOWEVER, SUCH AN EXTREME
INDIVIDUAL TRANSFORMATION
SHOULD NOT BE POSSIBLE.
>> Boota: THIS IS ALL BECAUSE
OF YOUR SPIRAL POWER,
LORDGENOME.
>> Lordgenome: SO MY POWER...
DID ALL OF THIS?
[Anti‐Spiral laughing]
>> Boota: NOW BACK OFF,
ANTI‐SPIRAL!
YOU WON’T LAY A HAND ON SIMON!
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU HAVE SHOWN
ME A MOST INTERESTING
PHENOMENON.
BUT EVOLVING WAS A MISTAKE.
>> Boota: WAIT A MINUTE,
WE’RE IN‐‐
>> Anti‐Spiral: THE INSTANT
MULTI‐DIMENSIONAL SPACE IS
PERCEIVED, IT’S MADE REAL.
TAKING HUMAN FORM MEANS THAT YOU
HAVE FOREVER TRAPPED YOURSELF IN
THE LABYRINTH OF
MULTI‐DIMENSIONAL SPACE.
>> Boota: SIMON...
>> Anti‐Spiral: THE LAST OF THE
GAPS HAVE NOW BEEN FILLED.
YOU WILL NEVER GENERATE SPIRAL
POWER AGAIN.
YOU ARE FINISHED, ALL OF YOU!
>> Kamina: WE’RE SORRY!
WHAT WE DID WAS WRONG!
FORGIVE US, OKAY?
LOOK, I’M ON MY KNEES!
HAVE MERCY ON US!
WHAT WE DID WAS WRONG!
WE’LL DO WHATEVER YOU SAY!
IF YOU SAY TO BOW A MILLION
TIMES, WE’LL DO IT, ALL RIGHT?
WE’RE SORRY! WE’RE SORRY!
PLEASE DON’T KILL US!
PLEASE! WE WANT TO LIVE!
JUST SPARE OUR LIVES!
>> Real Kamina: WHAT’S THE
MATTER, SIMON?
YOU LOSE YOUR DRILL?
TOO BAD.
>> Simon: THERE’S ANOTHER
BRO HERE.
>> Kamina: DUMB‐ASS!
THE REPUTATION OF TEAM GURREN
ECHOES FAR AND WIDE.
ITS BADASS LEADER, A MAN OF
SPIRIT, A PARAGON OF
TOTAL MASCULINITY!
AS IF THERE COULD BE MORE THAN
ONE OF THE MIGHTY KAMINA!
>> Simon: BUT, WELL,
THERE’S TWO OF YOU HERE.
>> Kamina: EXACTLY!
PICK THE ONE YOU WANT!
>> Simon: BUT THAT’S CRAZY,
BRO!
>> Kamina: HEY...
DON’T YOU REMEMBER YOU WERE
THE METHOD TO MY MADNESS,
THE ONE WHO MADE ALL MY BIG TALK
MORE THAN WORDS?
YOUR DRILL OUGHTA BE TOTALLY
DIFFERENT FROM THAT PEBBLE
OVER THERE.
>> Fake Kamina: I’M SORRY!
FORGIVE ME!
>> Real Kamina: YOUR DRILL IS
RIGHT HERE.
YOU CAN’T KEEP WASTING TIME
IN THIS PLACE FOREVER!
WHAT’S THAT DRILL OF YOURS
MEANT TO DO?
>> Simon: IS IT...
REALLY YOU?
>> Fake Kamina: WHAT ARE YOU
DOING?!
GET YOUR ASS DOWN HERE AND
START BOWING!
BOW AND BEG AND GROVEL ON YOUR
KNEES AND JUST PRETEND TO
APOLOGIZE TO THEM!
IF THEY LET US GO, WE CAN...
>> Simon: MY...
>> Fake Kamina: LOOK, JUST KEEP
YOUR HEAD DOWN AND APOLOGIZE,
ALL RIGHT?!
>> Simon: MY DRILL...
MY DRILL IS...
THE DRILL THAT’S GONNA PIERCE
THE HEAVENS!
[chuckles]
MY DRILL IS THE HEART
OF MY SOUL.
>> Kamina: GET GOING, SIMON.
JUST DON’T BE DISTRACTED BY THE
WHAT‐IFS, SHOULD’VES,
AND IF‐ONLYS.
THE ONE THING YOU CHOSE
YOURSELF, THAT IS THE TRUTH
OF YOUR UNIVERSE.
>> Simon: YEAH.
YOU’RE RIGHT...
EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> Kamina: DON’T FORGET.
MY UNIVERSE IS THE UNIVERSE
THAT’S IN HERE.
>> Simon: RIGHT, BRO.
>> Kamina: IT’S NOT JUST ME.
THESE BOZOS TOO.
[all chuckling]
HEY, WHEN THE HELL DID YOU GET
TALLER THAN ME?
>> Simon: WOW, YOU’RE RIGHT!
[both laugh]
[sighs]
GOTTA GO.
IT’S TIME.
>> Kamina: YEAH.
THIS TIME THOUGH,
IT’S REALLY GOOD‐BYE.
GET GOING, BLOOD BROTHER.
>> Simon: THIS ISN’T GOOD‐BYE.
YOU’RE ALWAYS HERE.
>> Kamina: YEAH!
>> group: YEAH!
[woman vocalizing]
>> Simon: LET’S GO, BUDDY!
>> Maosha: TEACHER!
>> Naakim: HEY, THANKS A LOT,
TEACHER!
>> Naakim and Maosha: MISS
YOMAKO!
>> Yoko: I‐I’M NOT YOUR...
>> Fake Yoko: I CAN ASSURE YOU
YOUR TEACHER IS A MUCH FINER
LADY THAN HER.
>> announcer: AND THE WINNER
IS MISS YOKO!
>> IT’S TIME FOR YOKO,
CONSIDERED THE BEST SHOT IN THE
GALAXY, TO TAKE HER TURN!
SHE DEMONSTRATED FLAWLESS
TECHNIQUE IN THE EARLY ROUND!
>> Kittan: THAT DRESS...
IT LOOKS WONDERFUL ON YOU.
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER ♪
[woman vocalizing]
>> Yoko: THANK YOU.
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER ♪
WELL, I’M OFF, THEN.
[woman vocalizing]
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER ♪
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER... ♪
[woman vocalizing]
>> girl: HERE, DADDY.
[giggling]
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER ♪
♪ ROW, ROW, FIGHT THE POWER... ♪
>> Viral: NOW I GET IT.
AND I WAS HAVING SUCH A SAPPY
DREAM, TOO.
[laughs]
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOUR ACTIONS
ARE BAFFLING, IRREGULAR.
WHY DO YOU RESIST US SO?
>> Nia: BECAUSE I AM CERTAIN
THAT HE’LL COME.
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU APPEAR TO
HAVE BEEN TAINTED BY THE POWER
OF THE SPIRAL AND GIVEN A
STRANGE SORT OF SELF‐AWARENESS.
HOWEVER, THE TIME LEFT TO YOU
HAS NOW RUN OUT.
[screams]
[screaming continues]
[pulsing]
[gasps]
HMM?
[pulsing]
>> Nia: SIMON!
>> Simon: SORRY I’M LATE, NIA!
[rock music]
[man singing in Japanese]
♪ ♪
>> Simon: THIS IS THE ENORMOUS
TALE OF A TINY MAN FROM A TINY
BLUE PLANET ON THE EDGE OF A
WHIRLING GALAXY.
TO TELL IT IN FULL WOULD TAKE
TILL AFTER SUNRISE.
NEXT TIME, THE SERIES FINALE,
"THE LIGHTS IN THE SKY
ARE STARS."